tiflash: support session and global variable for FastScan instead of ddl (#10350)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md

---
title: FastScan
summary: Introduces a way to speed up querying in OLAP scenarios by using FastScan.

> aliases: ['/tidb/dev/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode']

Reviewer: 这个是必须的吗？

Author: 是的，只要上过线的文档，即使删掉也会被搜索引擎搜出来，用户点开就会造成死链，所以需要加 aliases 避免死链。

> aliases: ['/docs/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode/']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
aliases: ['/tidb/dev/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode']
```

By default, TiFlash guarantees the precision of query results and data consistency. With the feature FastScan, TiFlash provides more efficient query performance, but does not guarantee the accuracy of query results and data consistency.

> Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can enable the FastScan feature in the corresponding session. You can choose whether to enable the FastScan feature by configuring the variable `tiflash_fastscan`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can enable the FastScan feature at the session or global level. You can choose whether to enable the FastScan feature by configuring the variable `tiflash_fastscan`.
```

> Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can enable the FastScan feature in the corresponding session. You can choose whether to enable the FastScan feature by modifying the value of the variable `tiflash_fastscan`.

Author: ```suggestion
Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can enable the FastScan feature in the corresponding session. You can choose whether to enable the FastScan feature by configuring the variable `tiflash_fastscan`.
```

## Enable and disable FastScan

> By default, the variable is `tiflash_fastscan=OFF` at the session level and global level , that is, the FastScan feature is not enabled. You can view the variable information by using the following statement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the variable is `tiflash_fastscan=OFF` at the session level and global level, that is, the FastScan feature is not enabled. You can view the variable information by using the following statement.
```

> By default, the session and global level variables `tiflash_fastscan=OFF`, that is, the FastScan feature is not enabled. You can see the corresponding variable information by using the following statement.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the session and global level variables `tiflash_fastscan=OFF`, that is, the FastScan feature is not enabled. You can view the corresponding variable information by using the following statement.
```

```
show variables like 'tiflash_fastscan';

+------------------+-------+
| Variable_name    | Value |
+------------------+-------+
| tiflash_fastscan | OFF   |
+------------------+-------+
```

```
show global variables like 'tiflash_fastscan';

+------------------+-------+
| Variable_name    | Value |
+------------------+-------+
| tiflash_fastscan | OFF   |
+------------------+-------+
```

> You can configure the variable `tiflash_fastscan` at session level and global level. If you need to enable FastScan in the current session, you can do so with the following statement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the variable `tiflash_fastscan` at the session level and global level. If you need to enable FastScan in the current session, you can do so with the following statement:
```

> The variable `tiflash_fastscan` supports session-level and global-level modifications. If you need to enable the FastScan feature in the current session, you can do so with the following statement:

Author: ```suggestion
You can configure the variable `tiflash_fastscan` at session level and global level. If you need to enable FastScan in the current session, you can do so with the following statement:
```

```
set session tiflash_fastscan=ON;
```

> You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level to enable new values for the default session and global variable `tiflash_fastscan` in the new session after setting.

Reviewer 3: This sentence seems a little difficult to understand easily, could you please change it to more understandable?

> You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level to enable new values for the default session and global variable `tiflash_fastscan` in the new session after setting.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting then takes effect for `tiflash_fastscan` in both new session and global levels.
```

Reviewer 3: You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect for the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` in session-level and global-level will both take the new value.

> You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect in the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` of session level and global level will both take the new value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect in the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` of the session level and global level will both take the new value.
```

> You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect for the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` at session-level and global-level will both take the new value.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect for the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` of session level and global level will both take the new value.
```

> You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect for the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` of session level and global level will both take the new value.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also set `tiflash_fastscan` at the global level. The new setting will take effect in new sessions, but will not take effect in the current and previous sessions. Besides, in new sessions, `tiflash_fastscan` of session level and global level will both take the new value.
```

```
set global tiflash_fastscan=ON;
```

You can disable FastScan using the following statement.

```
set session tiflash_fastscan=OFF;
set global tiflash_fastscan=OFF;
```

## Mechanism of FastScan

Data in the storage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.

> In the default mode (that is, when FastScan is not enabled), the TableScan operator processes data in the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, FastScan is not enabled, and the TableScan operator processes data in the following steps:
```

> In normal mode (that is, when FastScan is not enabled), the TableScan operator processes data in the following steps:

Author: ```suggestion
In the default mode (that is, when FastScan is not enabled), the TableScan operator processes data in the following steps:
```
